To Whom It May Concern:

UMass CS Women is a student-run organization of over 150 members, housed in the School of Computer Science at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. We organize events for our members ranging from professional development seminars, to technical talks, to social events. Our goal is to promote the recruitment and retention of women in computer science by encouraging women students to participate in the computer science community and by providing a fun and nurturing atmosphere, support, and mentorship opportunities.

We are seeking support from our industrial affiliates for one of the events that we are planning this semester.  The event is an egg drop competition: competitors work in teams using limited materials, such as paper, cups, straws, and bubble wrap, to design and build an apparatus that will protect the egg when it is dropped from a non-trivial height.  The event is tentatively scheduled for April 1st, and will be open to all graduate and undergraduate computer science students.  The goal of the competition is to encourage collaboration between the students and foster connections between the graduate and undergraduate women and the greater computer science community, while engaging in a fun engineering challenge.

We are thankful for your support and we look forward to hearing back from you.



Event details: In an egg drop competition, competitors use limited materials, such as paper, cups, bubble wrap, cotton, glue, straws, etc., to build an apparatus to protect an egg when it is dropped from a non-trivial height. Students will be asked to form and register teams before the event. We have tentatively scheduled the event for April 1st, at 4PM. The teams will have 40 minutes to brainstorm and build the device before dropping from the banister of the second floor. Attendees who are not competitors may watch from the stairwell. The goal of this event is to encourage a sense of collaboration between the members and to engage in a fun engineering challenge.


When: 4PM - 5PM, April 1st, 2015
Where: In the UMass computer science building


